[NO QA] Add CLAUDE.md documentation for App repository (#68547)
Expensify/App: CLAUDE.md

# Expensify App (NewDot)

## Repository Overview

### Technology Stack
- **Framework**: React Native
- **Language**: TypeScript
- **State Management**: React Native Onyx
- **Navigation**: React Navigation
- **Platforms**: iOS, Android, Web, Desktop (Electron)

## HybridApp Architecture (Critical Context)

**IMPORTANT**: The mobile application is built from the Mobile-Expensify submodule, not directly from the App repository.

### Key Integration Points
- App (NewDot) and Mobile-Expensify (OldDot) are combined into a single mobile application

> - The HybridApp module (`@expensify/react-native-hybrid-app`) manages transitions between classic and new Expensify

Reviewer: (NAB) Would it help Claude at all to keep our references to Classic/OldDot and new Expensify/NewDot consistent across the doc?
```suggestion
- The HybridApp module (`@expensify/react-native-hybrid-app`) manages transitions between OldDot and NewDot
```

Author: Yeah makes sense 👍

- **HybridApp**: Combined OldDot + NewDot (mobile apps)
- Controlled via `STANDALONE_NEW_DOT` environment variable

## Core Architecture & Structure

### Entry Points
- `src/App.tsx`: Main application component with provider hierarchy
- `src/Expensify.tsx`: Core application logic and initialization
- `src/HybridAppHandler.tsx`: Manages HybridApp transitions and authentication
- `index.js`: React Native entry point

### Provider Architecture
The application uses a nested provider structure for context management:
1. **SplashScreenStateContextProvider**: Manages splash screen visibility
2. **InitialURLContextProvider**: Handles deep linking
3. **ThemeProvider**: Theme management
4. **LocaleContextProvider**: Internationalization
5. **OnyxListItemProvider**: Data layer provider
6. **SafeAreaProvider**: Device safe areas
7. **PopoverContextProvider**: Global popover state
8. **KeyboardProvider**: Keyboard state management

### Data Layer
- **Onyx**: Custom data persistence layer for offline-first functionality
- **ONYXKEYS.ts**: Centralized key definitions for data store
- Supports optimistic updates and conflict resolution

## Key Features & Modules

> ### Core Functionality

Reviewer: (NAB) I am curious how these lists help. Have you noticed including them makes a difference? I would assume it could find this sort of context in HelpDot in the repo?

Author: It's a great question, and I'm not 100% sure, but I actually got Claude to generate this file. Theres a built in command that I used so I assume it is a good format. Then I removed anything I didn't think was necessary to trim it down. 

So I think it's fine as a start. But I will add links to the HelpDot site!

Author: https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/memory#set-up-project-memory

   - Policy creation and configuration
   - Member management
   - Categories, tags, and tax rates
   - Accounting integration settings
   - Approval workflows

4. **Travel**
   - Trip management
   - Travel booking integration
   - Travel policy enforcement

5. **Search & Filtering**
   - Advanced search with filters
   - Saved searches
   - Search parser (Peggy-based)

6. **Payment & Cards**
   - Expensify Card management
   - Bank account connections (Plaid)
   - Payment methods
   - Company cards integration
   - Wallet functionality

7. **Accounting Integrations**
   - QuickBooks Online
   - Xero
   - NetSuite
   - Sage Intacct
   - QuickBooks Desktop
   - Generic accounting connections

8. **Communication**
   - Chat functionality
   - Task management
   - Mentions and notifications
   - Thread organization

9. **Invoice Management**
   - Invoice creation and sending
   - Invoice rooms

## Navigation & Routing

### Structure
- `src/SCREENS.ts`: Screen name constants
- `src/ROUTES.ts`: Route definitions and builders
- `src/NAVIGATORS.ts`: Navigator configuration

### Key Navigators
- **ProtectedScreens**: Authenticated app screens
- **PublicScreens**: Login and onboarding

> - **RHP (Right Hand Panel)**: Settings and details panels

Reviewer: (NAB) I always thought it was Right Hand Pane? 😅 Maybe either is valid

Author: Yeah that seems correct, thanks!

Author: Lol actually i see people using both. I'll just mention both in the rules
